.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to pastclim
This document outlines how to contribute to the development of `pastclim`. The
package is maintained on a voluntary basis, so help is always appreciated.

## The basic process of contributing
Development work for `pastclim` occurs in the `dev` branch. So, if you want to
propose any changes, you should work on `dev`. Start by forking the project onto
your github repository, make the changes directly in your fork (either in the
`dev` branch, or make a custom branch). After updating all the documentation and
checking that all tests pass (see below), start a Pull Request. Your proposed
changes will be reviewed, and you might be asked to fix/improve your code. This
can be an iterative process, requiring a few rounds of revision depending on the
complexity of the code.
Functions should be documented using
[`roxygen`](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/roxygen2/vignettes/roxygen2.html).
If any of your changes affects the documentation , you should rebuild it. From
the root directory of the package, simply run:
```
devtools::document()
```
If you implemented a new functionality, or patched a bug, you should consider
whether you should add an appropriate unit test. `pastclim` uses the `testthat`
framework for unit tests. You should make sure that tests work with :
```
devtools::test()
```
Finally, before you submit a push request, you should check that your changes
don't break the build. You can do that with `check`, which also builds the
vignette and runs the tests.:
```
devtools::check()
```
Make sure that you have resolved all warnings and notes raised by
`devtools::check()`!
Once you have followed **those 3 steps**, you are ready to make your Pull
Request. Your changes will go through automatic continuous integration, which
will check the impact of those changes on multiple platforms. If everything goes
well, you will see a green tick on your submission.

## Fixing typos
If you spot typos, spelling mistakes, or grammatical errors in the
documentation, you should fix them directly in the file that describes the
function. This is the `.R` file in the `R` directory, NOT the `.Rd` file in the
`man` directory. `.Rd` files are automatically generated by `roxygen2` and
should not be edited by hand. We recommend that you study first how [roxygen2
comments](https://roxygen2.r-lib.org/articles/roxygen2.html) work.

## Functional changes
If you want to make a change that impacts the functioning of `pastclim`, it's a
good idea to first file an issue explaining what you have in mind. If the change
is meant to fix a bug, then add a minimal
[reprex](https://www.tidyverse.org/help/#reprex).
A good reprex is also the perfect starting point for writing a unit test, which
should accompany any functional change in the code. Unit tests are also
essential when fixing bugs, so that you can both demonstrate that the fix work,
and prevent future changes from undoing your work. For unit testing, we use
`testthat`; you will find tests under `tests`, with a file dedicated to each
function, following the convention `test_my_function.R` for naming files. When
creating tests, try to make use built-in datasets, rather than adding data files
to the package.
Ideally, the body of your Pull Request will include the phrase `Fixes
#issue-number`, where `issue_number` is the number on Github. In this way, your
Pull Request will be automatically linked to the issue, and the issue will be
closed when the Pull Request is merged in.
For user-facing changes, add a bullet to the top of `NEWS.md` (i.e. just below
the first header). Follow the style described in
<https://style.tidyverse.org/news.html>.
Our continuous integration checks that the Pull Request does not reduce test
coverage.

### Code style
New code should follow the tidyverse [style guide](https://style.tidyverse.org).
You can use the [styler](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=styler) package to
apply these styles, but please don't restyle code that has nothing to do with
your PR.
Lots of commenting in the code helps maintainability; so, if in doubt, always add
an explanation to your new code.

## Code of Conduct
Please note that the tidyverse project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By contributing to this project you agree to abide
by its terms.

Commit message:

Lintr (#68)
* style code to pass all lintr tests

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to pastclim
This document outlines how to contribute to the development of `pastclim`. The
package is maintained on a voluntary basis, so help is always appreciated.

## The basic process of contributing
Development work for `pastclim` occurs in the `dev` branch. So, if you want to
propose any changes, you should work on `dev`. Start by forking the project onto
your github repository, make the changes directly in your fork (either in the
`dev` branch, or make a custom branch). After updating all the documentation and
checking that all tests pass (see below), start a Pull Request. Your proposed
changes will be reviewed, and you might be asked to fix/improve your code. This
can be an iterative process, requiring a few rounds of revision depending on the
complexity of the code.
Functions should be documented using
[`roxygen`](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/roxygen2/vignettes/roxygen2.html).
If any of your changes affects the documentation , you should rebuild it. From
the root directory of the package, simply run:
```
devtools::document()
```
If you implemented a new functionality, or patched a bug, you should consider
whether you should add an appropriate unit test. `pastclim` uses the `testthat`
framework for unit tests. You should make sure that tests work with :
```
devtools::test()
```
Finally, before you submit a push request, you should check that your changes
don't break the build. You can do that with `check`, which also builds the
vignette and runs the tests.:
```
devtools::check()
```
Make sure that you have resolved all warnings and notes raised by
`devtools::check()`!

Finally, make sure that your code follows the `tidyverse` style. The easiest
way to ensure that is to use a combination of [styler] to style your code,
and lintr to check that it is compliant. Note that `lintr` is run automatically
via a GitHub action for all Pull Requsts.
So,
```
styler::style_pkg()
```
will style the code, and
```
lintr::lint_package()
```
will check that all is well. Sometimes it is a bit tricky to get your code
to pass a `lintr` test. If you are struggling, still make a Pull Request, and
we will help you sorting out the formatting.

Once you have followed **those 4 steps**, you are ready to make your Pull Request.
Your changes will go through automatic continuous integration, which will check
the impact of those changes on multiple platforms. If everything goes well, you
will see a green tick on your submission.

## Fixing typos
If you spot typos, spelling mistakes, or grammatical errors in the
documentation, you should fix them directly in the file that describes the
function. This is the `.R` file in the `R` directory, NOT the `.Rd` file in the
`man` directory. `.Rd` files are automatically generated by `roxygen2` and
should not be edited by hand. We recommend that you study first how [roxygen2
comments](https://roxygen2.r-lib.org/articles/roxygen2.html) work.

## Functional changes
If you want to make a change that impacts the functioning of `pastclim`, it's a
good idea to first file an issue explaining what you have in mind. If the change
is meant to fix a bug, then add a minimal
[reprex](https://www.tidyverse.org/help/#reprex).
A good reprex is also the perfect starting point for writing a unit test, which
should accompany any functional change in the code. Unit tests are also
essential when fixing bugs, so that you can both demonstrate that the fix work,
and prevent future changes from undoing your work. For unit testing, we use
`testthat`; you will find tests under `tests`, with a file dedicated to each
function, following the convention `test_my_function.R` for naming files. When
creating tests, try to make use built-in datasets, rather than adding data files
to the package.
Ideally, the body of your Pull Request will include the phrase `Fixes
#issue-number`, where `issue_number` is the number on Github. In this way, your
Pull Request will be automatically linked to the issue, and the issue will be
closed when the Pull Request is merged in.
For user-facing changes, add a bullet to the top of `NEWS.md` (i.e. just below
the first header). Follow the style described in
<https://style.tidyverse.org/news.html>.
Our continuous integration checks that the Pull Request does not reduce test
coverage.

### Code style
New code should follow the tidyverse [style guide](https://style.tidyverse.org).
You can use the [styler](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=styler) package to
apply these styles, but please don't restyle code that has nothing to do with
your PR.
We use [lintr](https://lintr.r-lib.org/index.html) for automatic linting 
of all pull requests via GitHub actions,
so it is worth checking locally that you have fixed all lints before you
make a PR.

Lots of commenting in the code helps maintainability; so, if in doubt, always add
an explanation to your new code.

## Code of Conduct
Please read the [Contributor Code of
Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md), which is based on the one from the tidyverse. By contributing to this project you agree to abide
by its terms.
